 pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party (BDP), according to Nazmi Gur, a BDP legislator. Selahattin Demirtas- Peace and Democracy Party

 is a political party in the Republic of Turkey.
The BDP succeeded the Democratic Society Party (DTP) in 2008, following the closure of the latter party for its connections with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). The BDP is co-chaired by Hamit Geylani and Filiz Koçali.
Ideology

The party chairman has called for the PKK to disarm. [1]

The BDP has observer status in the Socialist International.[2]


The Socialist International (SI) is a worldwide association of political parties which seek to establish democratic socialism.[1] It consists of democratic socialist, social democratic and labour political parties and other organisations.

Although formed in 1951 as a successor to the Labour and Socialist International it has antecedents to the late 19th Century. Initially dominated by parties from Western Europe, it has grown to include more than 160 member parties from more than 100 countries. Its members have governed in many countries including most of Europe. The Party of European Socialists, a European political party is an associated organisation of the SI, as is its European parliamentary group, the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats.

The current secretary-general of the SI is Luis Ayala (Chile), who has held the post since 1989.[3] The current president of the SI is the former Prime Minister of Greece George Papandreou.[3]
Contents

Selahattin Demirtaş (born 10 April 1973, in Palu Elâzığ, Turkey) is a Zaza[1] politician in Turkey. He became the chairman of Peace and Democracy Party (BDP) in January 2010.[2]

He graduated from Ankara University Law Faculty. He is on the Board of Directors of the Diyarbakir Branch of the Human Rights Association (IHD).

Selahattin Demirtaş was elected to the Turkish Parliament in the 2007 election as an MP for Diyarbakir for the Democratic Society Party (DTP), which eventually re-formed as the BDP.

He is married and has two children. His brother, Nurettin Demirtaş was also an active politician and the leader of the Democratic Society Party (DTP).

In September 2010, he was sentenced to 10 months in prison for alleged links to the Kurdistan Workers' Party, which is banned as a terrorist organization in Turkey , European Union and the U.S.A.[3]

Demirtaş emerged as a leader of the BDP's civil disobedience campaign during the 2011 Kurdish protests in Turkey, which he compared to concurrent protests in the region, especially the revolution in Egypt.[4] He spoke with President Abdullah Gul on behalf of the Kurdish population after the fatal shooting of a BDP supporter by police in April.[5]


Pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party leader Selahattin Demirtaş was hospitalized after suffering from chest spasms in the southeastern province of Diyarbakır on Monday. Pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party (BDP) leader Selahattin Demirtaş was hospitalized  worldbulletin.net Mar 11, 2013 

